A nice healthy amount of humiliation is
really humbling. [laughter] You know
what I mean? Like after that first
scratch, you just go like, "Okay, so
crash the car. We can fix it."
[music]
Few things are as exciting as an artist
we thought we knew. Becoming someone
different. [music]
Kristen Stewart has shown us that a
[music] few times. She was still a
teenager when Twilight made her globally
famous, but by her mid20s, she stepped
away from big budget Hollywood movies,
favoring independent films and nuanced
roles.
>> How am I doing?
>> Like an unraveling Princess Diana
[music] in 2021's Spencer, which earned
her an Oscar nomination.
>> I'm not moving from this spot.
You'll just have to shoot me.
>> She's transformed offscreen, too. Early
on, Stuart's relationship with her
Twilight co-star Robert Patson made her
a favorite target of the tabloid press.
[music] And in her public appearances,
she could seem intensely uncomfortable.
>> The lady in the house.
>> Yeah, barely.
>> That's what I'm talking about.
>> But as I found out when we spoke,
Stuart, who came out in 2017 and got
married earlier this year, [music] seems
to be riding some entirely new energy.
She recently directed her first
featurelength film, The Chronology of
Water, about a competitive swimmer who
wrestles with various traumas on her way
to becoming the writer she [music] needs
to be. It's a bold movie and one that
raises all kinds of questions about
womanhood, sexuality, and the stories we
choose to tell about ourselves. Those
are questions Stuart is still asking
herself in [music] a way that's so
exuberant, to use one of her words, that
it made for a very fun interview. Here's
my conversation with Kristen [music]
Stewart.
Hi, Kristen. How are you?
>> Great. How are you?
>> I'm good. I'm good. Thank you for for
taking the time to come do this. I
appreciate it.
>> I am 100% honored. Truly.
>> All right. We'll just get right into it.
>> Okay.
>> So So you've been trying to make the
chronology of water for I think it's
close to 10 years. And you know, it's a
memoir that involves a lot of really
heavy stuff. you know, there's uh
addiction, um child abuse, the the uh
loss of an infant. And I I'm just
wondering when when you first read the
book, what was it about that material
that made you feel like this was a story
that that you had to tell?
>> It was the way that she told it. It was
the fact of the telling. Um there is an
invitation in that text to kind of
excavate your own memories. Uh and also
it's about the things that you just
mentioned, but for me it's much less
about the things that happened to Lydia
and much more about how she reorients
those things and writes them down. the
idea of selfhood, just the idea of um
diaristic writing by women feeling and
being criticized for being like selfish
and narcissistic. It's like, "Oh, sorry.
I was being selfish. I wanted a self."
It's like anytime you start talking
about yourself, it becomes kind of this
tired, pathetic, messy thing. And I
wanted to make something tired,
pathetic, and messy that felt exuberant
and achieved and, you know, encouraging.
>> You opened up a lot of doors with that
answer. So, [laughter] started going
through some of them. But um you know, I
think you said that your interest in in
the material wasn't ne necessarily so
much about the particulars of Lydia's
experience as as it was the way that the
writing invited you to sort of examine
the particulars of your own experience.
Um, and I just wonder if you can kind of
make that concrete a little bit, like
what,
>> you know, as soon as you start making
those things specific, you fully and
completely dilute the point. [snorts]
You know, in the beginning of the movie,
we show a series of images of a woman
bleeding at various times in her life.
There's a way that that blood sticks to
the grout before it runs down the drain
that indicates that that did not come
from a laceration or a cut. It came from
an orifice. That is a very very specific
experience, but it is also general
enough for everyone to kind of insert
their lives into the movie if you are a
woman or if you might have ever loved a
woman or heard her speak about what it
feels like to bleed from the place that
hurts the most but that creates life.
You know, the movie is called tough
because when you reduce it to these
specific plot points,
it provides an arena for men to feel a
lot of shame and you don't ha it's
honestly quite like it's very
self-revealing because sometimes I talk
to people like is the thing that you
took away from this not that it's an
exuberant bloodletting telling
secretbearing
sort of like joyous celebration of a
woman finding herself and her own
valition and freedom or is it that it
was like kind of awkward because for for
you to acknowledge that you know
those things don't happen to everyone
but they do happen to most women is
awkward
>> and so it's like uh yeah sure like I
specifically think of things that have
happened in my life but if the question
is like you know what concrete things
did my did I have an abusive
relationship with my father no do I find
it do I resent him when he comments on
my appearance yes don't consider you
know what I mean it's like it's it's all
about how we're contextualized by the
male gays Um it, you know, I think an
idea that I was thinking about as I was
watching the film was the relationship
between between one's own experience and
sort of the emotionally intense
experiences of uh you know the in this
case the author. But I I think kind of
what I hear you saying is that my
question is maybe a little bit
irrelevant.
I think that question [sighs]
is super necessary and interesting and I
do really appreciate it because what I
want to say always is that if you get
bogged down in the details and you pick
this woman apart, you're not giving her
a chance to be as genius as she is. And
um so I think it's definitely important
to talk about the fact that this is not
a movie about this one woman. And it's a
movie about women being allowed to speak
for themselves and be people.
>> Um, that was a a very uh elegant and
impassioned uh way of saying question
dummy.
>> No, not at all. I literally don't mean I
[laughter] don't mean to talk down to
that question. Like what else are you
going to asking? It does seem like what
the movie is about. Like I I do not like
um
>> uh it's I'm a morning person.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> So I'm like hey yeah, sorry. Uh this is
a total uh naive question, but why does
it take 8 years to make a movie like
this?
>> It's not like a giant uh special effects
movie or you know a bunch of locations
all over the world or something. So what
it it seems like an unusually long time.
Maybe it's not in your business, but
>> I was lucky to be allowed to make this
movie at all.
>> I don't know that this movie would have
gotten financed by anyone if I wasn't
me.
>> [gasps]
>> I had to do a lot of kicking and
screaming. I think it's a a real a
multi-tered answer that I hope I have
the sort of wherewithal to organize at
this moment. [sighs and gasps]
And uh you know I I I had never made a
movie before. It does not have a
three-act structure that is easy to
classify. And so most of the time it's
difficult to pay for something that
doesn't have an equatable success story.
You know what I mean? like something
that you go, "Oh, well, this is going to
be great because we've seen it before."
Yeah, exactly.
>> It's like this meets this is always how
you try and like sell and market a
movie. It's like
>> I don't know what this meets this meets
anything.
>> But this had to be the first thing I
said. It just had to be cuz it's about
saying things. But it took a long time
because it is unsavory, unpalatable,
because it is about violation and
repossession and also how fun it is to
watch someone do that because she is
just a force. She's like a tsunami. And
also there's a sexuality in it that just
feels like [__] delicious.
>> I think you were just talking about in a
way the the idea of Lydia's sense of
abandon
>> and uh you know that that could be
sexual abandon, creative abandon, um
abandon when it comes to uh drinking or
or drug use, abandon with relationships,
you know. Um, I think abandon in one's
life is important. Um, cuz I there
there's a I think a real connection
between abandon and like it's it's sort
of a concentric circle or an overlapping
circle with transcendence in a certain
way.
>> Um, and uh, and I but this is also
connected because I think I think
abandon does require
some degree of anonymity. um or you
don't want like a a voice over here
while you're trying to really lose
yourself.
>> Um and I I wonder if just sort of given
that you're a you know a public figure
in some way if it's hard for you to
feel abandoned or or have moments of
transcendence.
>> Yeah. I don't self censor. I I I don't
um fixate on kind of how things are
going to land on other people because
I'm not smart enough. It would just be
so inauthentic. I mean, I guess it just
>> You think it's a matter of intelligence?
>> Um some people are mastermind crazy
control freak, you know, and like I just
don't have that. Like ultimately, I
think those people are probably going to
like die young and like, you know, I
don't know. That's like [clears throat]
I think it would take years off your
life to try and think in those terms.
But um
I I've I've um I've been I've been lucky
enough to sort of find the moments that
I fell on my face in public or you know
uh
a nice healthy amount of humiliation is
really [laughter] humbling. You know
what I mean? Like and it also makes you
realize too that like you know that
first scratch who cares like after that
first scratch you just go like okay so
crash the car. You know what I mean?
like we can fix it. But I think like the
way that I've [gasps]
been allowed to bounce off of people has
felt um so fruitful
>> largely.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. On the whole
>> on the [laughter]
>> Sorry.
>> But the um you know the the
way that people have people who don't
know you have a relationship with you um
it's a it's a very rare mode of human
existence. Uh, so what have you sort of
taken away from like being one of these
few people who can actually like witness
what it's like to like become a
character in a story not of their own
making.
>> Mhm. Yeah. I mean, sometimes you find
yourself on something that doesn't
really know what it's saying.
And so then the sort of subsequent
conversation is confused and sort of
ambiguous and becomes like very silly.
Like it feels like really like you're
just like a capitalist cog. [gasps]
>> Um which we all are. I mean like that's
like what it is. I want everyone to go
hey go buy go buy go buy go buy go buy
go buy go buy go buy go buy go buy go
buy go buy a ticket to the chronology of
water Christmas day. Um, [laughter]
so but like I um [sighs]
yeah, like sometimes it works, sometimes
it doesn't. You know, it's it's
definitely possible to be truthful
within the system. But then when you're
trying to sell something, it does sort
of inherently get bizarre, the sort of
negotiation. I was working with a
director that was like talking about an
actress who was thinking about whether
or not they should do a film and they
were like well I think the market right
now is and I was like I don't think I've
ever said the word market unless I was
going to buy some oranges and that is
just how I function and even if that's
naive I am willfully like honestly
tunnel vision and I know you did ask a
slightly different question like if I'm
telling someone else's story what it
feels like to do that on maybe such like
a large scale that and is part of a
business maybe that was Is that your
question?
>> I think you should just let it rip. Just
go with where you were going.
>> Yeah. You're like, "Not at all." But,
[laughter]
uh, yeah. I don't know. I think it's
just a it's a it's a funny thing to find
yourself um kind of desperate to have
people come see what you worked on, but
then also have that wrapped in wrapped
up in whether or not um, you know, it's
worthwhile.
>> Yeah. And um I don't think I answered
your question, but I you know, maybe the
next one I'll get closer to. [laughter]
>> No, you know, sometimes people say like
I don't think I answered your question,
but every answer is revealing in its own
way, even if it's not
>> the [snorts] answer to the question I
expect.
>> And now I'm like so curious about what
you're asking, but it's okay. We can
move on.
>> No, I was just asking it's like, you
know, you became at some point you
became a character in the tabloids,
right? And I was curious about what like
what do you learn from like seeing this
character Kristen Stewart out in the
world in that world specifically?
>> Oh, interesting.
>> And you know it's not you. It's this
character Christian Stewart that has
been created. That's Oh
>> yeah, I know. But like what is that? You
know, sometimes it is.
>> I said it like I know you. I don't know
you. Maybe it was you.
>> But you do know me now and that belongs
[clears throat] to you and you can think
anything about me that you want. Do you
know what I mean? Like I have given you
those details. It's like when you I
guess the I guess the the part that ever
if I've ever been frustrated it's
because you know they get the wrong
information or you sort of go like
that's not who I think I am but then you
go like who you think you are has
nothing to do with what other people
think you are and so like no one's wrong
you know.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's the relinquishing of control
that I'm talking about is like you
really just like you must slide or else
you'll it's not about not being smart
enough to control it. It's that it's not
possible,
>> right? So, it's it would just be an
exercise in futility if you try.
Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. You know, just um
you said uh something a second ago about
sort of um
>> like the connection between like the
thing you're making and sort of what it
means to you. And this I'm just going to
go on a slight little tangent right now.
Uh because that's where my it's just
something that popped up to my mind. If
you're allowed to go on tangents, I'm
allowed to
>> go. I was going to say, well, now we're
hanging out. So, we're going to be like
off in the ether and they're going to be
like, "We've been talking for an hour
and a half. You're done. Go." [laughter]
>> But, um, uh, I've always been, uh,
fixated on, uh, Marlon Brando's
performance as, uh,
>> himself
>> as it well, throughout his life. Yes.
[laughter] Well, he answered, "Yes, I
have been." But it's particularly
[clears throat] his performance as as
Superman's dad in the first Superman
film. Okay. We're like he has to say the
word Krypton in that movie. The the
planet where Superman is from. And
>> I've never seen this. Does he like not
say it? Is he like krypton?
>> You are the only survivor of the planet
Krypton.
>> That's exactly how he says it. He says
krypton.
>> Krypton. [laughter]
He can't commit to Krypton. I've
literally I can picture this and I've
never seen the movie.
>> Krypton though. And everyone else in the
movie says Krypton. And I'm sure at some
point somebody's like, you know, Marlin,
it's actually pronounced Krypton. And
then I brought this up. This is
>> poor poor male actors. God, it must it
must just be so painful.
>> It must have been hard to be Marlon
Brando. Uh um but I I brought this up in
sort of a similar context with uh Sean
Penn cuz he knew Marlon Brando and I was
like, "Oh, it's just weird that Brando
wouldn't do that." Like what was going
on? And he he suggested that actually it
not pronouncing Krypton correctly was
Brando's way of sort of retaining some
part of himself even though he was doing
this sellout movie. It's like, "Oh, you
I can take your money, but you I'm not
giving you my soul."
>> And I thought, "Oh, that's that probably
is what was going on." Like, he had to
hold on to some little measure of
artistic independence even though he
knew he was doing this thing that was
kind of like it was a paycheck job.
Yeah.
>> Um,
>> have you had similar experiences or does
that resonate with you at all?
>> That has kickstarted so many
>> Oh, good. We're in it now, Kristen.
Yeah.
>> Um, okay. So performance is inherently
vulnerable and therefore quite
embarrassing and unmasculine. [laughter]
You know what I mean? Like there's no
bravado in
um in suggesting that you're a
mouthpiece now for someone else's ideas
and that to sort of lend yourself,
you know, it's just inherently
submissive.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you ever heard of a female actor
that was method? And I mean like really
like you know
and I'm not coming for like the method.
I I don't even know enough about the
method.
>> I mean the only name that comes to mind
is a teacher you know Stella Adler but I
can't I can't think of a a performer
who's associated with it.
>> Right. Um
>> in the way that some men are associated
with it
>> right. Men are a grandized for retaining
self. You know that was like he's been
really like he sounds like a hero
doesn't he?
>> Yeah.
Um, if a woman did that, it would be uh
really I I I tr and I don't want to say
this like black and white like for sure
I know that there would be this
difference, but I I truly believe from a
very insider's perspective that if you
have to do 50 push-ups before your
closeup
or if you refuse to sort of say a word a
certain way or if you can't sit down in
an interview and not kind of like
repossess and belittle every question,
especially if asked by a woman to you,
the movie star. I mean, like Brando,
he's I mean, [__] like, I'm not coming
for him.
Incredible performer. There's a kind of
like um really common act that happens
before the acting happens sometimes on
set. Not only does it waste time, it
draws attention, it siphons. And look, I
get it sort of makes if it makes
everyone stand at attention and sort of
if it if it if you can protrude out of
the vulnerability a little bit and you
can sort of feel like, you know, a
gorilla pounding their chest before they
cry on camera, it's a little less
embarrassing to see. And also, it makes
it seem like it's a magic trick. It
makes it seem like it's so impossible to
do what you're doing that nobody else
could do it.
>> Also [snorts] maybe a form of control.
>> Yeah. And so I think maybe the krypton
thing is uh [gasps]
you know
um [clears throat]
it [sighs]
let me think of let me think of a way to
kind of sum this up so I don't like
totally ruin this point.
It's so defensive. You know it's like I
had this recent I had a recent
conversation that will you know speak to
this and maybe finish the point.
>> Uhhuh.
I asked a fellow actor, "Have you ever
met a a a female actor that was like
method and needed to sort of scream and,
you know, do a whole thing where
as soon as I said the word male actor,
female actor, he got like so def and
he's like one of my best friends."
[gasps]
The reaction was so kind of like, "Do
not mention the elephant in the room."
And he goes, "Oh, actresses are crazy."
And I was like, "Now I'm crazy." And I
was like, "Wait, but really answer the
question."
>> That was his answer. That was his
response.
>> Absolutely. And then I was like, "Hold
on a second. You just called me crazy."
And I was like, "Cool. So now we're just
doing the typical thing where the girl
is crazy and you didn't even listen to
anything I said because I said the word
male female actor."
>> Yeah.
>> And um so yeah, I do think that there's
like a large difference in terms of
performance and generosity and giving.
And we are made to give. We are
literally designed to give you what you
want. And we're really good at it and we
really love it. And men are designed to
give like in a very different way and to
take, you know what I mean? So I think
um
>> yeah, that's a really we could talk
about that for like five hours.
>> Um let me just scratch my next question.
[laughter] Why are actresses crazy? No,
don't not going to ask that.
>> Oh man, love you, bro. [laughter] But um
uh you know when when I was going uh
back through your films um there sort of
are two two uh little periods that I'm
I'm just sort of I was wondering if they
were um kind of like inflection points
in some way. And and so the the first
was when you did um the Snow White film.
>> YOU MUST TURN BACK. NO, I GAVE THEM MY
BLOOD.
>> I WANT TO SAY THAT was the last the same
year that the last Twilight film came
out.
>> It was.
>> And both those movies did very well. Uh
and then you didn't do another
>> I don't know what you'd want to call it.
Sort of like a a big spectacular studio
film for a few years until
>> the Charlie's Angels reboot.
>> Mhm.
>> Oh, me.
>> Just the decoy stud. Then you haven't
gone back to that particular well since.
Yeah. And and I just wondered if if you
had thought to yourself, all right, I'm
I'm kind of done with those types of
films for a while.
>> And then and then did you make a
decision like with Charlie's Angels? I'm
going to try again and that ended up not
feeling right and you haven't done it
since.
>> Yeah. Um I wanted to help Liz Banks do
her thing.
>> The director of the Charlie's Angels.
>> Yeah, she directed Charlie's. And um you
know I guess I was maybe feeling a
little bit hopeful and and optimistic
but I really just don't I I I don't
believe I don't I I spiritually and
philosophically disagree with the um
sort of committee process. You know I
think I think a movie comes from
someone's singularity and their
perspective and their soul. And um
I I hate signing on to something and and
seeing something with potential life be
destroyed.
And uh just,
you know, I'm not saying that Charlie's
Angels was destroyed. It's more the
dayto-day. I like that movie. I I I like
I don't think it's impossible to make a
film that speaks to people, that's
valuable, that um feels good, and that's
worth paying for under those
circumstances, but uh I don't have to do
it, and so I don't want to. So yeah,
like it's uh I I think as an actor, I
don't feel the need to feed the machine
anymore. And when I was younger, I was
kind of jealous, you know, I was kind of
greedy. I was like, maybe that maybe I
could make that work. Maybe that'll be
fun. But it just wasn't. or is this
>> like I want to play. You know what I
mean? It's like I don't want to not get
invited to the party, but then you go to
the party and you're like this party
sucks. [laughter]
>> Most of the people who encounter this
conversation will not have experience of
what it's like to be on a movie set. So
when you refer to like the dayto-day of
that sucks. Uh like what does that what
does that mean? Like what happens that
you're like this is not what I want to
be doing?
>> Sure. Um test screenings. Uhhuh.
>> Uh, you know, um, like literal on paper
numbered equations that tell you whether
or not a joke is funny. Um, 10 people
who are over the age of 50 and male
weighing in on what my queer character's
hair should look like. Completely
sucking the
colloquialism, like anything that makes
anything specific, you go, "Oh, that's
not going to relate." You know what I
mean?
And so it's it's like uh yeah, daytoday
you watch something with kind of detail
and color become really gray and uh
>> it's dispiriting.
>> It's dispiriting. Yeah. It's
demoralizing and it's also entirely
misogynistic and chauvinistic and it's
like just not the realm that really
creates an environment for me to want to
be vulnerable in. And that's like my
whole job as an actor. It's why it's why
guys get embarrassed about being
embarrassed. You know what I It's like
my job is to be embarrassed, but to feel
safe doing it. And so in environments
like that, with people like that, I
don't feel safe, nor should I.
>> Yeah. And um you [clears throat] know,
where I was uh going originally with
that question was maybe a um like an
overly literal interpretation of your
use of the word greedy. Um Oh, yeah. But
but I I
>> energetically I don't mean like
>> is there what has there ever been an
aspect of like well it's hard to say no
when somebody's offering you millions of
dollars to do something?
>> I mean not to well I'll just be like
fully transparent. I was so little. I
was such a little guy when I made
Twilight. I made a lot of money. Like
I'm so unbelievably lucky.
>> Yes.
Um, I've been so lucky to not have to
function from a place of like, you know,
uh, creating security for myself, for my
family. Like I Twilight blew up in our
faces, you know, and, uh, the the
positive repercussions of that I'm so
grateful for. But I think if that never
happened,
I would be scraping the bottom of every
barrel to never make another studio
movie again. And never, you know what I
It's like I this is that's it's just the
it's the setup that I think is the most
cohesive to a beautiful life.
>> You sort of uh answered my next question
a little bit, but I'll ask it regardless
and maybe there there's more to say. Um,
but I I was really thinking about what
it means for an artist to be so young
like you were when you made the first
Twilight film and for that to go gang
busters and then to to not really have
to worry about money anymore. Um,
because I could imagine that being
completely freeing. I could also imagine
that, you know, sometimes like having
the wide open horizon horizon is
actually paralyzing, you know. Um, so h
how do you think that or or what did
that change for you in terms of what you
decided you wanted to do with the rest
of your life?
>> I'm trying to think about like when that
actually when I transitioned into being
a real grown-up adult who was like,
"Hold on a second. What's going on
here?"
>> Still happening. [laughter]
>> Yeah. It's still happening. Truly. And
and I think maybe I have this kind of
like willful
um not willful like uh um
[gasps]
you know, if you got a lot of money, you
really got to give a lot of it away and
you really got to share it and you
really got to make sure that like I I
know for a fact I would be able to make
myself happy artistically without it.
Um, and also the everchanging climate. I
don't even know the structures that are
like the ones that we believe in now.
Who knows what the world is going to
look like in like 5 10 years. I you know
what I mean? Like it it truly is um
we're like at a pivotal nexus
because I think we're ready for a full
system break. Do you know what I mean?
Like I I just think we need to like
espec I mean and and I mean that across
the board and also specific to like the
world that I live in which is like very
exclusively the
entertainment industry.
>> Um and what would a system break look
like in the world that you live in?
>> I don't know. I think we need to start
sort of stealing our movies. I'm so
appreciative of every union. Uh trust me
uh we would not survive without them.
But some of the terms and some of the
rules and some of the structures we've
set up have created unbelievable
barriers for artists to express
themselves. And uh I think that
without being unfaithful, ungrateful,
I think we need a little workound. I I I
just don't think I I think having it be
so impossible for people to tell stories
and having it be such an exclusive and
rarified novel position to be in to find
yourself doing so is uh capitalist hell
and it hates women and it hates
marginalized voices and it's racist and
I think that we we we need to figure out
a way to make it easier to speak to each
other through c in cinematic terms. It's
too hard to make movies right now that
aren't blockbustery, whatever, proven
equations. Um, and so what does that
mean? I I'm not sure. I'm trying to
figure it out. But [sighs and gasps]
the next movie I want to make, I want to
do it for nothing. I want to make not a
dollar. I want it to be a smash hit. Do
you know what I mean? It's like it's
just so difficult to make movies. It
just doesn't need to be. Um, so yeah,
I'm just trying to think of some sort of
weird like Marxist communist like
situation that other people can
definitely think like of course this
psycho is saying that, but I think it's
possible, especially in these kind of
narrow
and exclusive environments. I'm not
talking about the world at large, but
for us, we've just made it the system
has has barred people and made it too
too difficult to be honest. Um, I I'm
I'm not sure if if you were using this
example sarcastically or not, but when
you said, you know, you you want to uh
basically make a movie for nothing
that's a huge hit. Do you
>> do you think you Kristen Stewart
could make a movie that's a huge hit?
That that is the movie that you want to
make.
>> Well, I mean, I guess it depends on what
you mean by like huge hit. I mean, if we
hit,
you know, if the target is like, you
know, I know everyone says this,
Marvel is like the tent pole reference
for like big movies, but like, you know,
pick another one cuz I'm not coming for
that specifically. But if that's the
goal, no, I mean, no, not probably
nothing like that because again, I do
think that that requires a little bit of
like homogyny.
But if you do something for nothing and
you reach even just a small number of
people,
that that's enough for me. Do you know
what I mean? A a huge hit in terms of it
got a theatrical release, that we did a
few interviews about it, that that we
had a couple screenings, that some
people watched it, that some person on
letter boxed said, "Oh, wow. that
changed me. Do you know what I mean?
Like that that truly is a hit.
>> You know, it sort of u underneath the
the conversation has been this idea of
um sort of like
who
>> Oh, and also,
>> oh yeah,
>> we could totally make a huge hit.
>> Do you know what I mean? Like I just
realized that your question was like, do
you think that left to your own devices
about your sensibility?
>> Totally my sensibility. Do do I think it
could land on like a large number of
people? I think that if people had the,
you know, cojones to allow one person to
lead the charge and they were actually
financed and supported and believed in
that people would start going to the
movies again
and not just to go see like, you know,
Marvel 10.
>> I wasn't I didn't mean to imply that. I
didn't have faith that you could
>> I'm not [laughter] saying it's you. I
just realized like what you asked me and
I was like, "Yes, we could make a huge
hit. Smash hit."
>> Yeah. Um, but so the
>> Barbie, dude,
>> which one?
>> Barbie.
>> Oh, Barbie. Yeah. Did you like Barbie?
>> I love that movie.
>> Yeah.
>> Can I I just want to say one thing about
Barbie, which I liked very much. Also,
my Sure.
>> My uh
>> This is a divisive subject. Yeah.
>> Yes. My um Also, no one cares what I
have to say about Barbie, but I want to
express it anyway. That's not true. Um
>> my one problem with that movie, which I
enjoyed very much. I took my two
daughters to go see it. They're they
were at the time probably six and eight
or something like that. They're just
enraptured watching it. And I thought
>> the the takeaway of this movie, even
though there are things that are
subversive about it and things that are
um sort of uh politically and society
and culturally critical about it, the
takeaway of this movie is that Barbie
dolls are cool.
>> Yeah, I hear you. Like maybe it
ironically
>> a critique of a critique of the thing is
also still can also still be an
advertisement for the thing.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Just something to think about.
>> Yeah. No, I mean look no [laughter] like
100% I I do I do hear you. I think
[snorts] I think for I think for a woman
to be allowed to make a movie of that
scale and how physical it was like she
built all the sets, she made a world to
live in and then she totally took Barbie
and broke her into a million
>> pieces. Talk [snorts] about
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And you know the villains were like the
Mattel executives all of it. It's like
it I'm surprised that Mattel let her
make that movie. I thought it was so
critical of the entire notion of being
sort of like put into our little
packages and boxes and how like sort of
like but I I hear you at the same time
you see a big poster for that Margot
Robbie's on and you're like oh my god
that is the picture of beauty. Yeah. Of
course you go
>> that is perpetuating for sure.
>> Yeah. You know it's complicated because
I actually completely understand what
you're saying but when I watched the
movie I was just sitting there like my I
was just like sort of like stream crying
like just the the fact that she was
allowed to do it. the fact that she was
allowed to make obscure jokes about P in
a movie about Barbie and then like weird
Barbie. There was just I don't know. I I
I I I love the fact of it.
>> Yeah.
>> But I hear this isn't going to end up in
the [__] thing. We didn't even make a
point. But
>> I sort of uh Twice was trying to lead up
to like a bigger uh kind of like final
encapsulation question about how you
know the idea that we've uh you know uh
kind of are talking about the story of
you in various ways. But I think I might
save that uh cuz we're talking again and
I know you have to you have to split
very shortly.
>> These are always the questions at the
end. Honestly, I can always feel the
approach of the end end of an interview
where I go and you're not doing it. This
is this is just inher This is this
happens to us all. I always go okay
>> here we go. Time for the summary
[laughter]
>> or like time to imbue the whole
conversation with like you know
>> Yeah.
>> my imparting thoughts.
>> Yeah. We only have so many tricks.
[laughter]
>> It's hard. It's another card we're going
to play every time. Um, but I'm going to
end uh uh in a different way. Um, I was
just reading a book uh last night by
this um really uh brilliant
psychoanalyst and writer named Adam
Phillips.
>> Um, and there's one there was one uh
off-hand thing that he had in there that
I thought that would be a good question
to ask someone. And so uh so in the book
>> Sorry, wait. What's the book called
again?
>> The book is called I think it's called
on becoming something like that.
becoming. Yeah. Um and he quotes someone
else who said the only modern question
is what is it you don't want to know
about yourself?
What's your answer to that question?
[sighs]
I guess
I guess I would be really ashamed if
all of this to-do working on movies,
talking about them, taking pictures,
putting on clothes, and like it's
inherently self serving of of course,
but that selfishness,
it's just so mutual. like we all want
for ourselves. But I think like okay,
philosophical question. If there's one
if there's something that you don't want
to know about yourself, what is it?
[sighs]
I don't know, man. I really hate like
mean people and I really don't think I
am one.
>> But maybe
>> sometimes [laughter]
if I'm like feeling threatened, I can be
mean, but like
God, I wish I had a bet. Do you have
anything? Were you wait were you
tiptoeing at the beginning of your
answer to something about acknowledging
a selfishness in yourself?
>> Yeah, of course. Yeah. I mean, totally
not tiptoeing. Like definitely like I
hope I'm not just like an egoomaniac
monster. Like do you know what I mean?
Like because I think that everyone
should listen to me, you know? I think
like I should be heard. Everyone I think
everyone should be but like there not
that much room. like it's like uh but I
guess on a base level I would need more
time to think about the let's come back
to this one too actually.
>> Sure.
>> But I think like um
I don't know the knowledge about myself.
E maybe is that maybe like do I even
really like care about people or is it
just that I'm desperate not to be alone?
Do you know what I mean? Like do I
actually care?
>> No, I do though.
>> Well, it's it's something for you to
think about on your plane ride to Poland
which I know you got a split for. So
>> got to go to Poland, dude. Thank you
very much for taking all the time.
>> Likewise. Yeah, this was fun. [music]
>> On the interview, we speak to our guest
twice. [music]
So, Kristen and I spoke again several
days later, and we return to the
question of what it is we don't want to
know about ourselves. [music]
>> Uh, David, can you hear me?
>> I can hear you. You can hear me? Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Are you ready to go?
>> Yeah. Um, wait. So, you you were in
Poland yesterday, but now you're in
London. Is that right?
>> Yes.
>> And how did it go showing the film in
Poland?
>> Uh, incredible audience. You palpably
understand the response that an audience
has to your film when you enter the room
for a Q&A. And, uh, it was it was a
bunch of students kind of like leaning
toward me and not kind of slouched in
their chairs with their head in their
hands. They were like they looked alive.
They looked kind of on fire. So I was
like, "Okay, I think this may have gone
quite well." It was it was a fun
conversation.
>> So I you know, we had ended our last
conversation with a kind of like a a big
question I'd asked that was that I took
from this book. I actually had gotten
the title wrong before, but the book is
called The Life You Want by Adam
Phillips. And that question was, "What
is it you don't want to know about
yourself?" Have you given any more
thought to that question?
>> Yes. And I've asked a lot of other
people what their answers would be and
it is confounding. Nobody has one
>> because I think there's there are so
many ways to interpret what that means.
Like is there something that you don't
want to find out? Like there's is there
a
is there something within yourself that
you're avoiding that you kind of don't
want to look at or is it something that
you really do know in the depths of
yourself but you're avoiding?
>> I interpreted the question. And I think
it was the the first way that you
mentioned that's like what's the thing
that you maybe don't really want to know
about yourself or don't want to have to
confront,
>> right? Something that you do know that
you wish you didn't.
>> Kind of. Kind of.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have an answer to this? Do people
turn this around on you?
>> Um I I did come up with answers because
I was
I was thinking about it also.
And do I feel comfortable
getting into those answers?
>> I mean, you can kind of you can kind of
give me a quickie.
>> Okay.
>> Just for conversation's sake. I'm
curious. Like, it seems like you thought
about it, but it's probably not hard to
say, but you don't have to. Definitely.
I mean, this is about me.
[laughter]
>> Uh, yeah. [clears throat] the the the
fir they're both embarrassing. So, I'm
just going to say I'll say them quickly,
but the first one is embarrassing
because it really is a it just is such a
cliche, but the the first one is uh
is why why did I not have the guts to
try and be like an actual artist uh
earlier in my life? Mhm.
>> And then the second one is um
there's sometimes a a almost like a
feeling of disdain that I can have for
my
like my body or my physical appearance
and I'm like I don't I don't know what
that's really about. So those those
would be my two answers. There you go.
>> Right. Like you wish you didn't like
judge yourself
from other because honestly that's like
Yeah. Because because that
>> you were not born with that. That's like
a weird insane
thing that you caught out there like a
disease, you know? And trust me, that's
like we're all with you. I'm with you.
Like I Yeah. Like there are times where
I'm like, "God, can't you like
can't you have an easier energy? Like I
wish there were things. But then it's
like is this question about changing
yourself or is it like something you
really don't want to know because like
if I didn't know that sometimes I made
people feel awkward, maybe I just
wouldn't feel awkward about making
people feel awkward. You know what I
mean? It's like
>> totally.
>> And I can tell you you're a cutie pie.
So that's a croc of [__] [laughter]
>> Uh can we uh uh someone clip
[clears throat] that and put it on
social immediately? [laughter]
>> Um all right. Let's let's move on to my
next idea from uh for this for this uh
part of the interview. But um I was
watching another interview uh you did
recently where the uh about the film and
and at the end the interviewer asked you
um for a kind of like a cultural
recommendation that you would give for
Hollywood. Um and you mentioned a film
by Barbara Hammer called Multiple
Orgasm. uh which then I I went and
watched um
>> uh you know was let's just say it
sparked a lot. Um but can you for can
just quickly for people who who aren't
familiar with that work can you explain
what it is?
>> Um yeah it's like a it's it's a it's an
impressionistic experimental short film
um by a woman who's like just
astoundingly prolific. But I saw that
movie and was so shocked because there's
a sequence in my film that is very
similar and I was like, "Oh my god, we
saw the same thing and we said it kind
of similarly." Um, and it just felt
really great and so I thought maybe
people should see that movie and it's
very confronting cuz it's like pretty
graphic in terms of
>> Yeah, I need to say I think you
[laughter] you sort of uh buried the
lead a little bit. I mean, the film is
it's the uh interspersing of uh close-up
images of a woman masturbating uh
interspersed with images of sort of
natural scenery. Uh uh
>> it's it's relating the female body to
like organic material that feels
>> um you know, it's very George O'Keefe.
It's just like a little experimental
movie that maybe not everyone has seen.
And so I thought maybe it was an
important thing to pass on
>> the unabashed nature of it. um of uh
connects to something else that I was
curious about. Um and I I want to
preface this by saying this is going to
end up being a question about sex. And
if there's uh All right, you're nodding
because I was going to say if there's
any part where like I really would
rather not talk about that, you just
give me the sign and I'll move on. But
um
>> yeah,
>> but
>> so the the fact that you you um sort of
recommended or or that that Barbara
Hammer film or had it had been kind of
in your in your mind um combined with
the sexual forthrightness of your movie.
Um, and then also, this is part of what
I was thinking about also, um, the fact
that you made, uh, last year the film
Love Lies Bleeding, which I kind of
thought of in some ways as like a
statement film. And that film, um, has
so much to do with, uh, sort of queer
eroticism. Um, all these things in
conjunction made me wonder if there are
things that um, sort of like you've uh,
realized about sex or or learned about
sex or or are curious about sex that
you've then wanted to explore in your
work uh, more recently. If there's
anything that I've learned, I don't I I
think
I really I I love watching things that
don't feel performative that do feel
inhabited and kind of um
uh instinctive instead of like, oh, I'm
really thinking about this like from the
outside, like how does this look? And
that's often how women have sex. you you
really want to perform and display that
you're into it and good at it and that
whoever you're with is good at it. And
maybe if you can perform that then it
can be true. And um there's like a
slower, more undulating experience that
can happen as you get older that I would
like to start seeing in art. And I will
say that I think that my movie emulates
even in its entire form the kind of more
uh uh pleasantly frustrating longer
experience of a success story which is
potentially also related to climax. And
you plateau into a sort of contentment
after a lot of false victories and false
starts and then you you know achieve
something that feels like self-earned
even if accompanied. And uh yeah, I
think like I've seen a lot of sex scenes
that are titillating and a lot of sex
scenes that are, you know, um exterior.
I I never want to I never really again
want to stand in a room and watch two
people [__] I've just like my whole
life, you know, that's just our whole
lives. And it's it's nice to get an odd
angle of it,
>> you know, just um hearing you talk uh
it's it's clear that your mind moves
very quickly. Um
>> I know you're like, what are you saying?
your is so disjointed. [laughter]
>> I don't I don't I don't mean it uh
critically at all. Um but uh you know I
assume there there must be times in in
your professional life and your personal
life when you sort of need to slow down.
Um are there ways you consciously do
that?
>> I mean like I do normal stuff like I
cook soup and hang out with my family,
you know, I go home. There's a line in
the movie and in the book that's like in
In water, like in books, you can leave
your life. I read a lot.
>> I thought you were going to say smoke
weed.
>> I smoke a lot of weed, but I shouldn't
because I don't. It probably [__] with
my sarcadian rhythm and I don't sleep.
Um [laughter]
>> um you know at the in the edition uh
that I have of the chronology of water
there's an interview with Lydia
Yucknovich at the end of the uh book and
uh um she just brings up the point it's
the uh the interviewer or somehow they
they get on the subject of drugs and she
brings up the point that um you know we
might find it culturally uncomfortable
to admit but like the truth is that a
lot of art has basically come out of uh
drugs and alcohol. Have you ever been
sort of inspired by drug use or drinking
or
>> what's your response to that?
>> Man, I have like had a I mean I
definitely have had to self soothe in
different ways as I've gotten older
because I'm like kind of a you know I've
had [snorts]
social insecurities that within like my
particular profession have just not been
fun to navigate. And so yeah, um,
but in terms of art making, like in
terms of thinking, I work best in the
morning. I work best at 6 6:00 in the
morning, like completely clear-headed. I
don't I romanticize so much like
Bukowski sitting there with a big old
bottle of wine and like writing his best
poems. I do not have that. I text people
I shouldn't text when I do that. You
know what I mean? You were talking about
abandon the last time we were talking,
too. like how it's it's fun to watch her
kind of fall down these holes in order
to find something new um in order to
kind of break through to kind of like
just like crack a certain
>> encapsulating crust. And sometimes you
do need to like pour a bunch of vodka on
it or maybe you do need to like sort of
kick your own teeth down your throat.
But I'm like way too old for that. I did
that. [laughter] And uh I did that for a
while. And I I I think um for me it's
like just so much more social than it
is. And I I don't feel inspired when I
get [__] up.
>> Yeah.
>> I I want my brain back. I You know what
I mean? Like I [sighs]
Yeah. I I I definitely think like
all of the things that I don't want to
know about myself.
Don't drink anymore. Make art about the
things you don't want to know about
yourself. you you know what I mean? Like
that's that's that's how you meet that's
how you meet your actual person inside.
You know what I mean? Like um is I no I
find them distracting I guess just to be
concise.
>> When we spoke earlier I I was doing the
thing that you um and that you and then
I started doing it and you predicted it.
The cliche I was doing was um you know
trying to I was leading up to like the
uh encapsulating final question. Uh here
no. But then I was like, "No, no, I I'm
not I'm I'm not going to do the
[laughter] the cliche, but like what do
you think we should end on?
>> Where do you want to leave people?"
>> Oh. Um,
good. I love how you've literally spent
now like uh two hours talking to me and
you think I'm going to be the person to
[laughter]
you have gotten me all wrong, sir. I
won't be able to do it. We'll just be
here forever. Um, what do we want to end
on? What do we want to end on? Um, I did
make an entire movie about what I wanted
to say and and like teaching a lesson on
that movie or trying to like sort of
reveal like this new thing about myself.
This is going to be funny. I It's
definitely not about like selling or
plugging my film, but if you want to
know anything about me, like if you want
to have a continued conversation, you
have to watch my movie first. Like, and
I really, this isn't about selling my my
film. It's tiny. It's not in no way is
it a blockbuster. It is definitely
something that requires like some like
real engagement and like personal it
would be like a gift for anyone to
actually spend two hours watching my
film because it would be it would be
like that you wanted to hang out with
me. Um and so like I don't have anything
else to say unless you want to know my
favorite color or some [__] but that's
also in my movie. [laughter]
Um, I of course I I felt like uh I was
uh out on the wire with you a little bit
uh uh uh in this conversation, but uh I
was glad to be out on that wire with
you. So, thank you.
>> You mean like tightroppe walking?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Yeah. In like a sort of a positive uh
there was a positive element of risk I
thought a couple times [music] and I
>> do you know what's funny? I did not feel
at risk, which is great because like I
felt like I could really talk to you and
that you weren't going to be like, I got
her. It's [__] wonderful. It's very
rare.
>> Well, good. I'm glad to hear it. And um
good luck good luck with with the movie.
>> Thank you. I really appreciate that.
[music]
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro. and I'm David
Maresy
>> and we're the hosts of the interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.